Now in this section we are going to discuss about the length property of a string and few search methods,
search methods we have already seen in a section called Array, but similar methods we can use with
string as well.
Also, there will be three really due questions to this topic.
Normally properties or methods should be with objects, whereas string is a primitive type or JavaScript.
Primitive types when executed behave like an object.
It means you do have properties and methods with these primitive types as well.
The string type has a length property which returns the length.
That is number of characters.
Let's check an example.
I'm going to declare a variable.
I'll say let SDR is equal to, let's say I technologies.
Now I'm going to say console.log.
Start out Lent.
Now let's run this call.
You see that it displays the number of characters.
So land is a property which is always there with a string.
As I mentioned earlier, normally properties are part of objects and this SDR is a primitive data type.
But when executed, JavaScript treats this like an object and it allows to apply property like this.
It also allows to apply methods.
Let's talk about few matters of string.
Two methods index off and last index of search for a character or string within a string and returns
the index number.
For example here, if I say led a STR is equal to let's say this is a test and now I'm going to say
console.log SDR dot index off and I'm going to search for is let me also use the last index off here.
I'll say console.log.
Start out last index off and here I'm going to say is now let's run this score.
So in case of index off it begins the search from the beginning.
Whereas last index of starts the searching from the end.
So that's why you see the different values in the output.
It shows the index number that is the position on which is is found by index of last index of.
These two matters return minus one if the value is not found.
And you can also give the start position as well.
Let me give you five here with the index off.
It means that it is going to start the searching from the fifth index.
So the index number starts with zero.
So from this position, it will start searching.
And let me also say for here with last index off.
Now, when I say four here, it will start searching from the fourth position to the start.
That is the beginning of the string in this direction.
Now let's run this score.
Now you see that in the index of it surges from the fifth position.
So the second is searched, but as in last index of it's searched for the first is that is also a search
method which does the same thing as index off but with a difference.
Let me just replace this index off with search.
Now I'm removing this five and four as well.
And I am also removing this last index off.
Let's run this now.
See that with index of ah, this search method?
The output seems simple, but there are two main differences between search and the index of index off
can have a start position to perform this search like we have seen in this example.
But index off cannot be used for advanced search operations like regex, whereas the search method can
take regular expressions as well.
But search method will not take this.
Starting position with index of can t.
So this is the fundamental difference between these two.
Let's discuss about the questions.
The first question is explain the index off and last index of matter which syntax?
So index offering, last index of searches for the index number of the string given.
You can also give the starting position here as a second parameter.
So to start searching from that position, index of will search from beginning to end, whereas last
index of will search from the end to the beginning of the string.
The second question is what is the difference between such an index of method?
Index of can have a start position to perform this search like we have seen in this example.
But index off cannot be used for advanced search operations like regex, whereas the search method can
take regular expressions as well.
But search method will not take this starting position with index of can t.
So this is the fundamental difference between these two.
And the third question is what will be the output of the below given?
Explain with the reason.
So the output is five.
The reason is index off is going to start the searching from the fifth position.
It starts from this position and the first is found is actually on the fifth position of the string.
So that's why it returns five in case of last index, because we are starting from the first position
that is it will start searching from edge and it'll go in this direction.
That is till the beginning of the string where it doesn't find any is.
And because there is no string found, it returns minus one, as we have already discussed that index
of our last index of in case of failure that is in case of no string found is going to return minus
one.